docs/auth.rst, before:

Authentication
--------------

Python-arango supports two HTTP authentication methods: basic and JSON Web
Tokens (JWT).

Basic Authentication
====================

This is python-arango's default authentication method.

**Example:**

.. testcode::
    from arango import ArangoClient

    # Initialize the ArangoDB client.
    client = ArangoClient()

    # Connect to "test" database as root user using basic auth.
    db = client.db('test', username='root', password='passwd')

    # The authentication method can be given explicitly.
    db = client.db(
        'test',
        username='root',
        password='passwd',
        auth_method='basic'
    )

JSON Web Tokens (JWT)
=====================

Python-arango automatically obtains JSON web tokens from the server using
username and password. It also refreshes expired tokens and retries requests.
The client and server clocks must be synchronized for the automatic refresh
to work correctly.

**Example:**

.. testcode::
    from arango import ArangoClient

    # Initialize the ArangoDB client.
    client = ArangoClient()

    # Connect to "test" database as root user using JWT.
    db = client.db(
        'test',
        username='root',
        password='passwd',
        auth_method='jwt'
    )

    # Manually refresh the token.
    db.conn.refresh_token()

    # Override the token expiry compare leeway in seconds (default: 0) to
    # compensate for out-of-sync clocks between the client and server.
    db.conn.ext_leeway = 2

User generated JWT token can be used for superuser access.

**Example:**

.. code-block:: python

    from calendar import timegm
    from datetime import datetime

    import jwt

    from arango import ArangoClient

    # Initialize the ArangoDB client.
    client = ArangoClient()

    # Generate the JWT token manually.
    now = timegm(datetime.utcnow().utctimetuple())
    token = jwt.encode(
        payload={
            'iat': now,
            'exp': now + 3600,
            'iss': 'arangodb',
            'server_id': 'client'
        },
        key='secret',
    ).decode('utf-8')

    # Connect to "test" database as superuser using the token.
    db = client.db('test', superuser_token=token)

Commit message:

Authenticate using User JWT-Token (#293)
* initial commit

* fix rst

* `set_token` test

* update `user_token` docstring

* new: `set_token` for `JwtSuperuserConnection`

* add `set_token` example in rst

* fix: set_token

* update docstring

* update error msg

* update `test_auth_jwt_expiry`

* fix isort

docs/auth.rst, after:

Authentication
--------------

Python-arango supports two HTTP authentication methods: basic and JSON Web
Tokens (JWT).

Basic Authentication
====================

This is python-arango's default authentication method.

**Example:**

.. testcode::
    from arango import ArangoClient

    # Initialize the ArangoDB client.
    client = ArangoClient()

    # Connect to "test" database as root user using basic auth.
    db = client.db('test', username='root', password='passwd')

    # The authentication method can be given explicitly.
    db = client.db(
        'test',
        username='root',
        password='passwd',
        auth_method='basic'
    )

JSON Web Tokens (JWT)
=====================

Python-arango automatically obtains JSON web tokens from the server using
username and password. It also refreshes expired tokens and retries requests.
The client and server clocks must be synchronized for the automatic refresh
to work correctly.

**Example:**

.. testcode::
    from arango import ArangoClient

    # Initialize the ArangoDB client.
    client = ArangoClient()

    # Connect to "test" database as root user using JWT.
    db = client.db(
        'test',
        username='root',
        password='passwd',
        auth_method='jwt'
    )

    # Manually refresh the token.
    db.conn.refresh_token()

    # Override the token expiry compare leeway in seconds (default: 0) to
    # compensate for out-of-sync clocks between the client and server.
    db.conn.ext_leeway = 2

User generated JWT token can be used for user and superuser access.

**Example:**

.. code-block:: python

    from calendar import timegm
    from datetime import datetime

    import jwt

    from arango import ArangoClient

    # Initialize the ArangoDB client.
    client = ArangoClient()

    # Generate the JWT token manually.
    now = timegm(datetime.utcnow().utctimetuple())
    token = jwt.encode(
        payload={
            'iat': now,
            'exp': now + 3600,
            'iss': 'arangodb',
            'server_id': 'client'
        },
        key='secret',
    ).decode('utf-8')

    # Connect to "test" database as superuser using the token.
    db = client.db('test', superuser_token=token)

    # Connect to "test" database as user using the token.
    db = client.db('test', user_token=token)

User and superuser tokens can be set on the connection object as well.

**Example:**

.. code-block:: python

    from arango import ArangoClient

    # Initialize the ArangoDB client.
    client = ArangoClient()

    # Connect to "test" database as superuser using the token.
    db = client.db('test', user_token='token')

    # Set the user token on the connection object.
    db.conn.set_token('new token')

    # Connect to "test" database as superuser using the token.
    db = client.db('test', superuser_token='superuser token')

    # Set the user token on the connection object.
    db.conn.set_token('new superuser token')
