docs/pregel.rst, before:

Pregel
------

Python-arango provides support for **Pregel**, ArangoDB module for distributed
iterative graph processing. For more information, refer to `ArangoDB manual`_.

.. _ArangoDB manual: https://docs.arangodb.com

**Example:**

.. testcode::

    from arango import ArangoClient

    # Initialize the ArangoDB client.
    client = ArangoClient()

    # Connect to "test" database as root user.
    db = client.db('test', username='root', password='passwd')

    # Get the Pregel API wrapper.
    pregel = db.pregel

    # Start a new Pregel job in "school" graph.
    job_id = db.pregel.create_job(
        graph='school',
        algorithm='pagerank',
        store=False,
        max_gss=100,
        thread_count=1,
        async_mode=False,
        result_field='result',
        algorithm_params={'threshold': 0.000001}
    )

    # Retrieve details of a Pregel job by ID.
    job = pregel.job(job_id)

    # Delete a Pregel job by ID.
    pregel.delete_job(job_id)

See :ref:`Pregel` for API specification.

Commit message:

Pregel is deprecated starting from 3.12

docs/pregel.rst, after:

Pregel
------

.. warning::
    Starting from ArangoDB 3.12, the Pregel API has been dropped.
    Currently, the driver still supports it for the 3.10 and 3.11 versions, but note that it will be dropped eventually.

Python-arango provides support for **Pregel**, ArangoDB module for distributed
iterative graph processing. For more information, refer to `ArangoDB manual`_.

.. _ArangoDB manual: https://docs.arangodb.com

**Example:**

.. testcode::

    from arango import ArangoClient

    # Initialize the ArangoDB client.
    client = ArangoClient()

    # Connect to "test" database as root user.
    db = client.db('test', username='root', password='passwd')

    # Get the Pregel API wrapper.
    pregel = db.pregel

    # Start a new Pregel job in "school" graph.
    job_id = db.pregel.create_job(
        graph='school',
        algorithm='pagerank',
        store=False,
        max_gss=100,
        thread_count=1,
        async_mode=False,
        result_field='result',
        algorithm_params={'threshold': 0.000001}
    )

    # Retrieve details of a Pregel job by ID.
    job = pregel.job(job_id)

    # Delete a Pregel job by ID.
    pregel.delete_job(job_id)

See :ref:`Pregel` for API specification.
